MOLECULAR PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THE VIRAL ENTRY INTO HUMAN CELL 
All coronaviruses contain specific genes in ORF1 downstream regions that encode 
proteins for viral replication, nucleocapsid and spikes formation . The glycoprotein spikes 
on the outer surface of coronaviruses are responsible for the attachment and entry of the 
virus to host cells (fig. 1). The receptor-binding domain (RBD) is loosely attached among 
virus, therefore, the virus may infect multiple hosts . Other coronaviruses mostly recognize 
aminopeptidases or carbohydrates as a key receptor for entry to human cells while 
SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV recognize exopeptidases . The entry mechanism of a 
coronavirus depends upon cellular proteases which include, human airway trypsin-like 
protease (HAT), cathepsins and transmembrane protease serine 2 (TMPRSS2) that split 
the spike protein and establish further penetration changes . SARS-coronavirus require 
angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as a key receptor . 
SARS-CoV-2 possesses the typical coronavirus structure with spike protein and also expressed 
other polyproteins, nucleoproteins, and membrane proteins, such as RNA polymerase, 3- 
chymotrypsin-like protease, papain-like protease, helicase, glycoprotein, and accessory proteins . 
The spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 contains a 3-D structure in the RBD region to maintain the van 
der Waals forces . The 394 glutamine residue in the RBD region of SARS-CoV-2 is recognized by 
the critical lysine 31 residue on the human ACE2 receptor . The entire mechanism of pathogenicity 
of SARS-CoV-2, from attachment to replication is well mentioned in below fig. 
The life cycle of SARS-CoV-2 in host cells; starts its life cycle when S protein binds to the cellular 
receptor ACE2. After receptor binding, the conformation change in the S protein facilitates viral 
envelope fusion with the cell membrane through the endosomal pathway. Then SARS-CoV-2 
releases RNA into the host cell. Genome RNA is translated into viral replicase polyproteins pp1a 
and 1ab, which are then cleaved into small products by viral proteinases. The polymerase 
produces a series of subgenomic mRNAs by discontinuous transcription and finally translated into 
relevant viral proteins. Viral proteins and genome RNA are subsequently assembled into virions in 
the ER and Golgi and then transported via vesicles and released out of the cell. ACE2, 
angiotensin-converting enzyme 2; ER, endoplasmic reticulum; ERGIC, ER–Golgi intermediate 
compartment. 
The researchers found that the SARS-CoV-2 spike was 10 to 20 times more likely to bind ACE2 on human 
cells than the spike from the SARS virus from 2002. This may enable SARS-CoV-2 to spread more easily 
from person to person than the earlier virus.
