STRUCTURAL FEATURES OF COVID-19 VIRUS: 
COVID-19 is a spherical or pleomorphic enveloped particles containing single- stranded . RNA associated with a nucleoprotein within a capsid comprised of matrix protein. The envelope bears clubshaped glycoprotein projections. Some corona virus also contain , agglutininesterase protein. corona viruses have enveloped virons that measures approximately 120nm . 
Coronavirus is generally considered to contain two genera, Coronavirus and Torovirus, which differ in nucleocapsid morphology, the former being helical and the latter being tubular. Coronaviruses are important agents of gastrointestinal disease in humans, poultry, and bovines. The virus emerged in humans. It jumped to humans from an animal reservoir, believed to be horseshoe bats. The ability of SARS coronavirus to jump to humans undoubtedly required genetic changes in the virus. These changes are suspected to have occurred in the palm civet, since the SARS virus present in horseshoe bats is unable to infect humans directly 
. The first case was found in Saudi Arabia, and others were reported within the following year in France, Germany, 
Jordan, Qatar, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, and United Kingdom. All confirmed cases were directly or indirectly linked to the Middle East. The novel MERS coronavirus was similar to other coronaviruses known to have originated in bats and was thought to be passed from bats to other animals before being transmitted to humans. Camels were identified as one possible reservoir for the MERS virus. virus apparently closely related to SARS coronavirus emerged in Wuhan, China. The virus, later named severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, caused an illness known as COVID-19, which was similar to SARS and was being characterized primarily by fever and respiratory symptoms. 
STRUCTURE OF GENOME: 
Genome Structure. The human genome comprises of roughly 3.2 billion base pairs across 46 chromosomes. Only a small fraction of this sequence codes for functional genes. The remainder is made up of repeating elements pseudogenes, microsatellites and transposons. 
