COVID PANDEMIC 
COVID-19 is a disease caused by a new strain of coronavirus. 'CO' stands for corona, 'VI' for virus, and 'D' for disease. Formerly, this disease was referred to as '2019 novel coronavirus' or '2019-nCoV.' 
Features of corona virus : 
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is defined as illness caused by a novel coronavirus now called severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS- CoV-2; formerly called 2019-nCoV), which was first identified amid an outbreak of respiratory illness cases in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. It was initially reported to the WHO on December 31, 2019. On January 30, 2020, the WHO declared the COVID-19 outbreak a global health emergency. The WHO declared COVID-19 a global pandemic, its first such designation since declaring H1N1 influenza a pandemic in 2009. 
Illness caused by SARS-CoV-2 was recently termed COVID-19 by the WHO, the new acronym derived from "coronavirus disease 2019." The name was chosen to avoid stigmatizing the virus's origins in terms of populations, geography, or animal associations. the Coronavirus : severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). 
Symptoms: 
According to the CDC, individuals at high risk of infection include persons in areas with ongoing local transmission, healthcare workers caring for patients with COVID-19, close contacts of infected persons, and travelers returning from locations where local spread has been reported. 
Person-to-person spread of SARS-CoV-2 has been reported in the United States. Individuals who believe they may have been exposed to SARS-CoV-2 should immediately contact their healthcare provider. 
The CDC has also provided recommendations for individuals who are at high risk of COVID-19–related complications, including older adults and persons who have serious underlying health conditions (eg, heart disease, diabetes, lung disease). Such individuals should consider the following precautions 
Stock up on supplies. 
Avoid close contact with sick people. 
Wash hands often. 
Stay home as much as possible in locations where COVID-19 is spreading. 
Develop a plan in case of illness. 
Healthcare personnel are also referred to Medscape’s Novel Coronavirus Resource Center for the latest news, perspective, and resources. 
