Structural features of COVID-19 VIRUS 
Like other coronaviruses, SARS-CoV-2 particles are spherical and have proteins called spikes protruding 
from their surface. These spikes latch onto human cells, then undergo a structural change that allows the 
viral membrane to fuse with the cell membrane. The viral genes can then enter the host cell to be copied, 
producing more viruses. Recent work shows that, like the virus that caused the 2002 SARS outbreak,SARS- 
CoV-2 spikes bind to receptors on the human cell surface called angiotensin-converting enzyme 2(ACE2). 
•coronaviruses belong to the Coronaviridae family in the Nidovirales order. Corona represents 
crown-like spikes on the outer surface of the virus; thus, it was named as a coronavirus. 
Coronaviruses are minute in size (65 to 125 nm in diameter) and contain a single-stranded RNA as 
a nucleic material, size ranging from 26 to 32 kbs in length (fig.1). The subgroups of coronaviruses 
family are alpha (a), beta (ß), gamma (?) and delta (d) coronavirus. The severe acute respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), H5N1 influenza A, H1N1 2009 and Middle East respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) cause acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress 
syndrome (ARDS) which leads to pulmonary failure and result in fatality. These viruses were 
thought to infect only animals until the world witnessed a severe acute respiratory syndrome 
(SARS) outbreak caused by SARS-CoV, 2002 in Guangdong, China. Only a decade later, another 
pathogenic coronavirus, known as Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) 
Figure 1. 
Caused an endemic in Middle Eastern countries . Fig 1. structure of respiratory syndrome causing 
human coronavirus, This virus was reported to be a member of the ß group of corona viruses. The 
novel virus was named as Wuhan coronavirus or 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCov) by the 
Chinese researchers. 
The International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) named the virus as SARS-CoV-2 and 
the disease as COVID-19. 
Genome’s structure The human genome comprises of roughly 3.2 billion base pairs across 46 chromosomes.Only a 
small fraction of this sequence codes for functional genes.The remainder is made up of repeating 
elements pseudogenes,microsatellites and transposons.
