Structural features of covid-19: 
Phylogenetic relationships and genomic structures of COVID-19 belongs to genera Betacoronavirus. Coronaviruses have enveloped virions (virus particles) that measure approximately 120 nm (1 nm = 10-9 m) in diameter. Club-shaped glycoprotein spikes in the envelope give the viruses a crownlike, or coronal, appearance. The nucleocapsid, made up of a protein shell known as a capsid and containing the viral nucleic acids, is helical or tubular. The coronavirus genome consists of a single strand of positive-sense RNA (ribonucleic acid). 
Coronaviruses possess the largest genomes (26.4–31.7 kb) among all known RNA viruses, with G + C contents varying from 32% to 43%. The genome RNA is complexed with the basic nucleocapsid (N) protein to form a helical capsid found within the viral membrane. The membranes of all coronaviruses contain at least three viral proteins. Variable numbers of small ORFs(open reading frame) are present between the various conserved genes (ORF1ab, spike, envelope, membrane and nucleocapsid) and, downstream to the nucleocapsid gene in different coronavirus lineages. The viral genome contains distinctive features, including a unique N-terminal fragment within the spike protein. Genes for the major structural proteins in all coronaviruses occur in the 5'–3' order as S, E, M, and N. These are spike (S), the type I glycoprotein that forms the peplomers on the virion surface, giving the virus its corona- or crown-like morphology in the electron microscope; the membrane (M) protein, a protein that spans the membrane three times and has a short N-terminal ectodomain and a cytoplasmic tail; and small membrane protein (E), a highly hydrophobic protein. Some group II coronaviruses have an additional membrane protein, hemagglutinin esterase (HE). While the function of HE is not known, it is not an essential protein, and it has been speculated to aid in viral entry and/or pathogenesis in vivo and will be discussed below. HE is not encoded in the SARS-CoV. 
The genomes of all coronaviruses have a similar structure. The 5' approximately 20 to 22 kb carries the replicase gene, which encodes multiple enzymatic activities. The replicase gene products are encoded within two very large open reading frames, ORFs 1a and 1b, which are translated into two large polypeptides, pp1a and pp1ab, via a frameshifting mechanism involving a pseudoknot structure formed by the genomic RNA. The structural proteins are encoded within the 3' one-third of the genome, for all coronaviruses, in the order S-E-M-N. (When the HE protein is expressed, it is encoded 5' to S.) Each group of coronaviruses in addition encodes a group of unique small proteins; while these protein are nonessential and have been speculated to serve as accessory proteins and to interact or interfere with the host innate immune response, this has not been demonstrated for any of these proteins. There are untranslated regions (UTRs) on both the 5' and 3' ends of the genome, which are believed to interact with host and perhaps viral proteins to control RNA replication, which includes the synthesis of positive- and negative-strand genomic-length RNA. Likewise, there are conserved sequences at the beginning of the transcription sites for each of the multiple subgenomic mRNAs; these are 
called transcriptional regulatory sequences (previously known as intergenic sequences). Coronavirus transcription has been reviewed recently. 
