Molecular principles underlying in viral entry into human cell: 
Two specific cell types in the nose have been identified as likely initial infection points for COVID-19 coronavirus. Scientists discovered that goblet and ciliated cells in the nose have high levels of the entry proteins that the COVID-19 virus uses to get into our cells. Breathing carries some of these particles to the lower respiratory tract where the spike proteins(S) of the coronavirus, acting like a key, lock into epithelial cells that line the respiratory tract as well as those in the air sacs in the lungs. Coronaviruses attach to specific cellular receptors via the spike protein(S), this triggers a conformational change in spike which then mediates fusion between the viral and cell membranes which results in the release of the nucleocapsid into the cell (3rd figure and 4th figure). Upon entry into the cell, the 5' end of the genome RNA, ORFs 1a and 1b, are translated into pp1a and pp1ab; pp1ab is translated via a frameshift mechanism, which occurs at high frequency (25 to 30%). ORF 1a encodes one or two papain-like proteases (PLpro or PLP) and a picornavirus 3C-like protease (3CLpro), which function to process pp1a and pp1ab into the mature replicase proteins. Also, encoded in the X domain of ORF 1a is a (putative) ADP-ribose 1"-phosphatase activity. Encoded in ORF 1b and processed from pp1ab are an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and a helicase, as well as other enzymatic activities. An additional putative enzymatic activity, cyclic phosphodiesterase, is encoded downstream in ORF 2a. These multiple enzymatic activities are speculated to play roles in metabolism of coronavirus RNA and/or in interfering with host cell processes. 
During infection with coronaviruses, as with all other RNA viruses, replication of genome and transcription of mRNAs must occur. Replication of the genome involves the synthesis of a full-length negative-strand RNA that is present at a low concentration and serves as template for full-length genomic RNA. Multiple (six in the case of MHV) overlapping 3'-coterminal subgenomic RNAs serve as mRNAs, as does full-length genomic RNA. Each mRNA has a common (75- to 78-nucleotide) leader sequence at its 5' end; this leader is derived from the 5' end of genome RNA. In addition, negative-strand RNAs corresponding in length to each of the mRNAs as well as the full genomic length are present at low concentrations. The mechanism by which the group of positive- and negative- strand RNAs are synthesized involves a unique discontinuous transcription mechanism that is not completely understood. However, subgenomic mRNA synthesis is believed to be regulated by transcription-regulating sequences, present in the genome RNA, at the transcriptional start sites for each mRNA. The current model is that discontinuous transcription occurs during the synthesis of subgenomic negative-strand RNAs, with the antileader sequences being added onto the 3' ends of negative-strand RNAs which then serve as templates for synthesis of mRNAs. Viral proteins are translated from individual mRNAs, generally from the 5' ORF only (3rd figure). The replicase, for example, is translated from the 5' end of the genomic RNA. In some cases there may be two ORFs carried on and translated from one mRNA. An example of this is the E protein of MHV, which is translated from a downstream ORF (ORF 5b) on mRNA 5; it is believed that the translation of ORF 5b is mediated by an internal ribosome internal entry site. After translation, the M and E membrane proteins are localized to the Golgi intracellular membranes near, but just beyond, the endoplasmic reticulum Golgi intermediate compartment, which is believed to be the actual site of budding. Thus, in addition to M, other viral and/or cellular factors are probably required to determine the site of budding. M and E proteins, expressed in the absence of other viral proteins and viral RNA, are sufficient to produce virus-like particles. The spike protein is distributed on intracellular membranes as well as the plasma membrane. The spike protein interacts with the transmembrane region of the M protein during assembly. For some viruses, spike- mediated cell-to-cell fusion occurs, thus promoting syncytium formation and viral spread. Nucleocapsid protein complexes with genome RNA, forming helical structures. The N protein interacts with the M protein, and budding into vesicles occurs.
