Corona viruses are a large family of common viruses which are found in humans and animals. Many cases of common cold are due to the corona viruses. They have caused 2 large scale outbreaks in past 2 decades. The SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) virus in 2002 and the MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) virus in 2012. 
It’s generally been considered that these coronaviruses could cause future outbreaks because they are known to be able to evolve within animals and jump to humans via an intermediate host.COVID-19(Coronavirus Infectious Disease 2019) is believed to be an example of this which is believed to have jumped from bats to pangolins to humans in a local seafood market in Wuhan, China in 2019. The virus is called SARS-COV-2 (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2) because its structure vey closely resembles that of the SARS virus. This is the 7th known coronavirus to affect humans. 
Structure of the SARS-COV-2 
The virus has a series of protein spikes on its surface which when viewed under microscope appear like a crown which gives rise to the name corona (Latin: Crown) which is common to all coronaviruses. There are 4 structural proteins: 
• Spike 
• Envelope 
• Membrane 
• Nucleocapsid 
The crown like structure is the S protein. This protein is responsible for allowing the virus to attach to the membrane of the host cell. It contains a Receptor Binding Domain which recognises a specific receptor the ACE2(Angiotensin Converting Enzyme Receptor 2) which is present in the lungs, heart, kidneys and intestines.it is been shown that this protein binds to the ACE2 receptor with the same affinity and potentially 20 times more affinity than the SARS virus. This could be one of the explanations as to why it is spreading so easily. The spike protein itself ha 2 functional subunits: 
o S1 – binds to the host cell receptor o S2 – mediates the fusion of the viral and the cellular maintains. 
M or Membrane protein is the most abundant on the viral surface. It defines the shape of the viral envelope. It can be thought of as the central organiser for the corona virus assembly and interacts with other structural proteins. 
The E or Envelope protein is the smallest of the major structural proteins on the viral membrane. Which appears to have several rows and is integral in the assembly and release of the virus from the host cells and during viral replication it is largely localised to the site of intracellular trafficking, more specifically at the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. 
So essentially the M& E proteins play a critical role in turning the host cell apparatus into workshops where the virus and our own cells work together to make new viral particles. 
Underneath the surface proteins we have the viral envelope. This is the viruses’ outer layer that is derived from the host’s cell membrane. It is a fatty layer and if it comes in contact with soap it will break down killing the virus. 
Underneath this layer is the capsid. This is a protein shell that encloses the genetic material of the virus. Inside this capsid we have the nucleocapsid or N protein. This protein is bound to virus’ single strand of RNA where all its genetic information is held. It assists host cells defence mechanisms and assists the viral RNA in replicating itself.