MOLECULAR PRINCIPLE UNDERLYING THE VIRAL ENTRY INTO HUMAN CELL: The transmission among people occurs through respiratory droplets.In mild cases, SARS-Cov-2 infection can cause fever, fatigue and dry cough, while severe cases frequently cause pneumonia, respiratory and kidney failure. Apart from respiratory and flu-like symptoms, this infection may be complicated by lymphopaenia and interstitial pneumonia with high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokinesAs with other respiratory pathogens, including flu and rhinovirus, the transmission is believed to occur through respiratory droplets from coughing and sneezing. Aerosol transmission is also possible in case of protracted exposure to elevated aerosol concentrations in closed spaces. Analysis of data related to the spread of SARS-CoV-2 in China seems to indicate that close contact between individuals is necessary. The spread, in fact, is primarily limited to family members, healthcare professionals, and other close contacts. All coronaviruses contain specific genes in ORF1 downstream regions that encode proteins for viral replication, nucleocapsid and spikes formation. The glycoprotein spikes on the outer surface of coronaviruses are responsible for the attachment and entry of the virus to host cells. The receptor-binding domain (RBD) is loosely attached among virus, therefore, the virus may infect multiple hosts. Other coronaviruses mostly recognize aminopeptidases or carbohydrates as a key receptor for entry to human cells while SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV recognize exopeptidases. The entry mechanism of a coronavirus depends upon cellular proteases which include, human airway trypsin-like protease (HAT), cathepsins and transmembrane protease serine 2 (TMPRSS2) that split the spike protein and establish further penetration changes. MERS-coronavirus employs dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP4), while HCoV-NL63 and SARS-coronavirus require angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as a key receptor.The genome of the SARS-CoV-2 has been reported over 80% identical to the previous human coronavirus (SARS-like bat CoV) [34]. The Structural proteins are encoded by the four structural genes, including spike (S), envelope (E), membrane (M) and nucleocapsid (N) genes. 
