How virus affects humans 
The virus is spread mainly by respiratory droplets i.e. cough or sneeze which aerosolizes the virus allowing it to travel into our nasal or oral cavities. Initially it can get into the upper airway in the nasal or throat airway and this is where you can get symptoms like common cold, stuffy nose, headache, sore throat or fever. It is within the mucosal epithelium of the upper respiratory tract where the first replication occurs. Similar to the SARS the SARS -COV- 2 is able to get further into our respiratory system and into our lung epithelial cells where further replication occurs. The SARS-COV-2 binds the S protein to the ACE2 receptor. 
Mechanism of Entry in the Cells of the Respiratory Tract - 
• Direct Cell Entry - The host cell has proteases that cleave the S protein. It is believed that this process activates the protein in order to trigger the process of membrane fusion before injecting the viral genes into the host cell. 
• Endocytosis – this is the process by which material enter the cell after being surrounded by an area of the cell membrane which then buds off inside the cell to form a fascicle. 
Once inside the cell virus specific RNA and proteins are synthesised within the cytoplasm. Further the proteins are then assembled with the blueprint of information contained in the viral RNA with the help of host’s cellular machinery specifically the ER and Golgi Apparatus. With specific processes to form the Envelope Glycoproteins. New viruses are then assembled by fusing to the plasma membrane and released as fascicles by the cellular exocytic secretory processes. The stress on cell due to the viruses and the Immune-Antigen interaction results in cell death. During cell death multiple inflammatory mediators are released which creates an inflammatory response leading to a build up of mucous and thickening and hyperplasia of the cells within our airways. This causes irritation to cells leading to cough. 
In the Lower Respiratory System – 
Due to the direct action of the virus and our own immune system’s response to viral infection the alveolar walls can become inflamed and thickened filling the alveolus with fluid which can impair their ability to exchange gases. This can lead to the shortness of breath. In some people this process of cellular infection by the SARS-COV-2 virus can lead to an exaggerated immune 
response with a huge release of pro-inflammatory mediators causing what is called a cytokine storm or cytokine release syndrome. Cytokines are small proteins proteins involved in cell signalling under crucial in mediating immune responses. This cascade of inflammatory mediators causes an uncontrolled systemic inflammatory response which leads to ARDS (Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome). This is the rapid and widespread inflammation in the lungs which causes the epithelial and the endothelial cells of the lung to secrete mediators which fill the alveoli. In addition, these inflammatory signalling cells recruit other cells of the immune system into the alveoli which further contributes to and amplifies the problem. 
Further, the systemic inflammatory state causes increased capillary permeability which results in even more fluid to enter the alveoli. So essentially, this is non cardiogenic pulmonary edema compounded in the problem. Overall, this pathological process severely impairs the ability of the lungs to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide as it is now become filled with fluid and inflammatory infiltrate. In case of severe ARDS invasive mechanical ventilation is required to adequately oxygenate the body. 
