MOLECULAR PRINCIPLES UNDERLYING THE VIRAL ENTRY INTO HUMAN CELL: 
The outer layer of spiky protein molecules that helps it invade cells of the human respiratory system. Molecular level events that occur when the virus gains entry into the host cell. By visualising the mechanism of viral entry into cells in real-time, the researchers hope to find clues that would allow us to devise strategies for battling the disease. 
Global research efforts have already revealed that the novel coronavirus is an enveloped virus. As the name implies enveloped 
virus have an outer covering that envelopes their genetic material. The envelope of the new coronavirus has special spike-like proteins called S-glycoproteins that help the virus anchor to the host cell. S-glycoprotein in turn is made up of three smaller protein subunits called S-proteins, each with two domains S1 and S2. The S1 domain latches on to human cells by binding to a protein called ACE2 . The S2 domain then links the membranes of the virus and human cells, undergoing structural changes to help form a pore through the membrane. Next, the virus genetic material RNA passes through this pore into the host cell, allowing it to multiply inside the human cells. 
Exactly how S2 fuses the two membranes. Das and his team plan to investigate this by imaging the S-glycoprotein directly while the virus is making its entry into the host cell. The study will also allow them to understand how this protein interacts with cells of the respiratory system as well as immune cells. 
Das explains the strategy they are planning to follow, which relies on the property of fuleresence and a phenomenon called resonance energy transfer. The researchers will tag the S-glycoprotein of the virus with a fluorescent dye, called the donor tag. At the same time, the researchers will also place an acceptor tag on ACE2, the protein on the human cell membrane that the virus docks to. When the donor and acceptor tags come close to one another, and the two are excited by a laser, the donor transfers some energy to the acceptor, changing the nature of light energy emitted by both tags. This energy transfer depends on the physical separation between the donor and acceptor tags. 
So when the S-glycoprotein latches onto ACE2 and begins to change its molecular structure to allow the membranes to fuse, the events can be recorded in terms of changes in the spectral of the donor and acceptor tags. A high resolution, highly sensitive camera called EMCCD will capture the minute sequential changes during the 
process. By measuring these changes, the researchers can gain insights into the dynamics of membrane fusion by the S-glycoprotein. 
